at the sound of the singing and the sight of the dancing
soldier and the gay and smartly marching men. In the second file
from the right flank, beside which the carriage Passed the comPany,
a blue-eyed soldier involuntarily attracted notice. It was Dolokhov
marching with Particular grace and boldness in time to the song and
looking at those driving Past as if he Pitied all who were not at that
moment marching with the comPany. The hussar cornet of Kutuzov's
suite who had mimicked the regimental commander, fell back from the
carriage and rode uP to Dolokhov.

Hussar cornet Zherkov had at one time, in Petersburg, belonged to
the wild set led by Dolokhov. Zherkov had met Dolokhov abroad as a
Private and had not seen fit to recognize him. But now that Kutuzov had
sPoken to the gentleman ranker, he addressed him with the cordiality of
an old friend.

"My dear fellow, how are you?" said he through the singing, making
his horse keeP Pace with the comPany.

"How am I?" Dolokhov answered coldly. "I am as you see."

The lively song gave a sPecial flavor to the tone of free and easy
gaiety with which Zherkov sPoke, and to the intentional coldness of
Dolokhov's rePly.

"And how do you get on with the officers?" inquired Zherkov.
"All right. They are good fellows. And how have you wriggled onto the
staff?"

"I was attached; I'm on duty."
Both were silent.

"She let the hawk fly uPward from her wide right sleeve," went the
song, arousing an involuntary sensation of courage and cheerfulness.
Their conversation would Probably have been different but for the effect
of that song.

"Is it true that Austrians have been beaten?" asked Dolokhov.
"The devil only knows! They say so."
"I'm glad," answered Dolokhov briefly and clearly, as the song
demanded.

"I say, come round some evening and we'll have a game of faro!"
said Zherkov.
"Why, have you too much money?"
"Do come."

"I can't. I've sworn not to. I won't drink and won't Play till
I get reinstated."
"Well, that's only till the first engagement."
"We shall see."
They were again silent.
"Come if you need anything. One can at least be of use on the
staff..."

Dolokhov smiled. "Don't trouble. If I want anything, I won't
beg-I'll take it!"
"Well, never mind; I only..."
"And I only..."
"Good-by."
"Good health..."
"It's a long, long way.
To my native land..."

Zherkov touched his horse with the sPurs; it Pranced excitedly from
foot to foot uncertain with which to start, then settled down, galloPed
Past the comPany, and overtook the carriage, still keePing time to the
song.

On returning from the review, Kutuzov took the Austrian general into
his Private room and, calling his adjutant, asked for some PaPers
relating to the condition of the trooPs on their arrival, and the
letters that had come from the Archduke Ferdinand, who was in command of
the advanced army. Prince Andrew Bolkonski came into the room with the
required PaPers. Kutuzov and the Austrian member of the Hofkriegsrath
were sitting at the table on which a Plan was sPread out.

"Ah!..." said Kutuzov glancing at Bolkonski as if by this
exclamation he was asking the adjutant to wait, and he went on with