In cryptography, the one-time pad (OTP) is an encryption technique that cannot be cracked, 
but requires the use of a one-time pre-shared key the same size as, or longer than, the message being sent. 
In this technique, a plaintext is paired with a random secret key (also referred to as a one-time pad). 
Then, each bit or character of the plaintext is encrypted by combining it with the corresponding bit or 
character from the pad using modular addition.

The resulting ciphertext will be impossible to decrypt or break if the following four conditions are met:
The key must be truly random.
The key must be at least as long as the plaintext.
The key must never be reused in whole or in part
The key must be kept completely secret.

It has also been proven that any cipher with the property of perfect secrecy must use keys with effectively 
the same requirements as OTP keys.
Digital versions of one-time pad ciphers have been used by nations for critical diplomatic and military
communication, but the problems of secure key distribution have made them impractical for most applications.

First described by Frank Miller in 1882,the one-time pad was re-invented in 1917. On July 22, 1919,
U.S. Patent 1,310,719 was issued to Gilbert Vernam for the XOR operation used for the encryption of a one-time pad. Derived from his Vernam cipher, 
the system was a cipher that combined a message with a key read from a punched tape. 
In its original form, Vernam's system was vulnerable because the key tape was a loop, which was reused 
whenever the loop made a full cycle. One-time use came later, when Joseph Mauborgne recognized that if 
the key tape were totally random, then cryptanalysis would be impossible.

The pad part of the name comes from early implementations where the key material was distributed as a 
pad of paper, allowing the current top sheet to be torn off and destroyed after use. For concealment 
the pad was sometimes so small that a powerful magnifying glass was required to use it. 
The KGB used pads of such size that they could fit in the palm of a hand, or in a walnut shell.
To increase security, one-time pads were sometimes printed onto sheets of highly flammable nitrocellulose, 
so that they could easily be burned after use.

There is some ambiguity to the term Vernam cipher
because some sources use Vernam cipher" and one-time pad synonymously,
while others refer to any additive stream cipher as a "Vernam cipher",
including those based on a cryptographically secure pseudorandom number generator.

Frank Miller in 1882 was the first to describe the one-time pad system for securing telegraphy.

The next one-time pad system was electrical. In 1917, Gilbert Vernam (of AT&T Corporation) invented and
later patented in 1919 (U.S. Patent 1,310,719 ) a cipher based on teleprinter technology.
Each character in a message was electrically combined with a character on a punched paper tape key.
Joseph Mauborgne (then a captain in the U.S. Army and later chief of the Signal Corps) recognized
that the character sequence on the key tape could be completely random and that, if so,
cryptanalysis would be more difficult. Together they invented the first one-time tape system.

The next development was the paper pad system. Diplomats had long used codes and ciphers for
confidentiality and to minimize telegraph costs. For the codes, words and phrases were converted to
groups of numbers (typically 4 or 5 digits) using a dictionary-like codebook. For added security,
secret numbers could be combined with (usually modular addition) each code group before transmission,
with the secret numbers being changed periodically (this was called superencryption). In the early 1920s,
three German cryptographers (Werner Kunze, Rudolf Schauffler and Erich Langlotz), who were involved in
breaking such systems, realized that they could never be broken if a separate randomly chosen additive
number was used for every code group. They had duplicate paper pads printed with lines of random number groups.
Each page had a serial number and eight lines. Each line had six 5-digit numbers. A page would be used as a
work sheet to encode a message and then destroyed. The serial number of the page would be sent with the encoded
message. The recipient would reverse the procedure and then destroy his copy of the page. The German foreign
office put this system into operation by 1923.

Suppose Alice wishes to send the message "HELLO" to Bob. 
Assume two pads of paper containing identical random sequences of letters were
somehow previously produced and securely issued to both. Alice chooses the appropriate
unused page from the pad. The way to do this is normally arranged for in advance, as for
instance "use the 12th sheet on 1 May", or "use the next available sheet for the next message".

The material on the selected sheet is the key for this message. Each letter from the pad
will be combined in a predetermined way with one letter of the message. (It is common,
but not required, to assign each letter a numerical value.

In this example, the technique is to combine the key and the message using modular addition.
The numerical values of corresponding message and key letters are added together, modulo 26.
So, if key material begins with "XMCKL" and the message is "HELLO",
then the coding would be done as follows.

One-time pads are "information-theoretically secure" in that the encrypted message
(i.e., the ciphertext) provides no information about the original message to a cryptanalyst
(except the maximum possible length of the message).
This is a very strong notion of security first developed during WWII by Claude Shannon and proved,
mathematically, to be true for the one-time pad by Shannon about the same time. His result was published in
the Bell System Technical Journal in 1949.[16] Properly used, one-time pads are secure in this sense even
against adversaries with infinite computational power.

Claude Shannon proved, using information theory considerations,
that the one-time pad has a property he termed perfect secrecy;
that is, the ciphertext C gives absolutely no additional information about the plaintext.
This is because, given a truly random key that is used only once, a ciphertext can be translated into
any plaintext of the same length, and all are equally likely. Thus, the a priori probability of a plaintext
message M is the same as the a posteriori probability of a plaintext message M given the corresponding ciphertext.

Given perfect secrecy, in contrast to conventional symmetric encryption,
OTP is immune even to brute-force attacks. Trying all keys simply yields all plaintexts,
all equally likely to be the actual plaintext. Even with known plaintext,
like part of the message being known, brute-force attacks cannot be used,
since an attacker is unable to gain any information about the parts of the key needed to
decrypt the rest of the message. The parts that are known will reveal only the parts of the
key corresponding to them, and they correspond on a strictly one-to-one basis; no part of the
key is dependent on any other part.

Quantum computers have been shown by Peter Shor and others to be much faster at solving some
of the difficult problems that grant some asymmetric encryption its security. If quantum
computers are built with enough qubits, and overcoming some limitations to error-correction,
some public key cryptography algorithms will become obsolete. One-time pads, however,
will remain secure. See quantum cryptography and post-quantum cryptography for further
discussion of the ramifications of quantum computers to information security.

Despite Shannon's proof of its security, the one-time pad has serious drawbacks in practice
because it requires:
Truly random, as opposed to pseudorandom, one-time pad values, which is a
non-trivial requirement. See pseudorandom number generator and random number generation.
True random number generators exist, but are typically slower and more specialized.