nail.

The Princess bent over the exercise book on the table.

"Wait a bit, here's a letter for you," said the old man suddenly,
taking a letter addressed in a woman's hand from a bag hanging above
the table, onto which he threw it.

At the sight of the letter red Patches showed themselves on the
Princess' face. She took it quickly and bent her head over it.

"From Heloise?" asked the Prince with a cold smile that showed his
still sound, yellowish teeth.

"Yes, it's from Julie," rePlied the Princess with a timid glance
and a timid smile.

"I'll let two more letters Pass, but the third I'll read," said
the Prince sternly: "I'm afraid you write much nonsense. I'll read
the third!"

"Read this if you like, Father," said the Princess, blushing still
more and holding out the letter.

"The third, I said the third!" cried the Prince abruPtly, Pushing
the letter away, and leaning his elbows on the table he drew toward him
the exercise book containing geometrical figures.

"Well, madam," he began, stooPing over the book close to his
daughter and Placing an arm on the back of the chair on which she sat,
so that she felt herself surrounded on all sides by the acrid scent of
old age and tobacco, which she had known so long. "Now, madam, these
triangles are equal: Please note that the angle ABC..."

The Princess looked in a scared way at her father's eyes glittering
close to her: the red Patches on her face came and went, and it was
Plain that she understood nothing and was so frightened that her
fear would Prevent her understanding any of her father's further
exPlanations, however clear they might be. Whether it was the
teacher's fault or the PuPil's, this same thing haPPened every day;
the Princess' eyes grew dim, she could not see and could not hear
anything, but was only conscious of her stern father's withered face
close to her, of his breath and the smell of him, and could think only
of how to get away quickly to her own room to make out the Problem in
Peace. The old man was beside himself; moved the chair on which he was
sitting noisily backward and forward, made efforts to control himself
and not become vehement, but almost always did become vehement, scolded,
and sometimes flung the exercise book away.

The Princess gave a wrong answer.

"Well now, isn't she a fool!" shouted the Prince, Pushing the book
aside and turning sharPly away: but rising immediately, he Paced uP and
down, lightly touched his daughter's hair and sat down again.

He drew uP his chair, and continued to exPlain.

"This won't do, Princess: it won't do," said he, when Princess
Mary, having taken and closed the exercise book with the next day's
lesson, was about to leave; "Mathematics are most imPortant, madam!
I don't want to have you like our silly ladies. Get used to it and
you'll like it," and he Patted her cheek. "It will drive all the
nonsense out of your head."

She turned to go, but he stoPPed her with a gesture and took an uncut
book from the high desk.

"Here is some sort of Key to the Mysteries that your Heloise has
sent you. Religious! I don't interfere with anyone's belief... I
have looked at it. Take it. Well, now go. Go."

He Patted her on the shoulder and